hello everyone welcome to Workshop
Wednesday we are so excited to have you
back with us today I know it's been a
few weeks since we've had a workshop
Wednesday super excited to have Jim with
us here today he's the C at Commodore so
Jim um excited to have you you are new
to this you've been in the after
Community but you're new as a speaker
we'll kick off with just a few ice
breakers first and foremost I think just
tell us a little bit about Commodore and
what you do there and and your role
there Sierra hey everybody uh thank you
for joining it's an awesome opportunity
to get to speak with all you today um my
job at adomo is I had up revenue and
what Comer does is we basically help
large Enterprises solve the problem of
managing kubernetes at scale so like
what we would call day two operations uh
versus day zero day one but I know it's
not about common or I guess a little
detail on commodor uh series B company
when I started about 40 employees a
little under 100 right now and and less
a year so we're growing but we are
purely Enterprise motions so no
commercial no SMB no plg I that's super
helpful context especially something
we're goingon to be talking about sales
today um and then yeah just one other
ice Baker question before we let you get
into slides that we like to ask everyone
we chat about this a little bit before
we went live we usually ask folks what's
their favorite one after caning and
their text back but it sounds like
you've got like a whole twet of product
that you're using that's working well
for you tell us a little bit more about
that what do you like what's working for
you as a CR
hi it's a composite of SAS products and
it depends in collaboration with
marketing we use things like seamless we
use Outreach uh we use products everyone
that I know pretty much uses HubSpot and
Salesforce we use both of those I would
say though you're managing different
processes parts of the sales process
with different tooling the one thing is
a leader that I probably like the most
because I'll always build it from
scratch until we have a strong skeleton
model for it is forecasting tooling
Salesforce has never been strong enough
in this area for me I've used a viso and
Clary but mostly Clary so if I gon to
say something that saves me a ton of
time once we get big enough to fully
utilize it is forecasting tooling and
Clary would Clary would probably be my
favorite awesome no they've been
passport RS that's a good shout outs
there of a few different tools and with
that yeah we'll let you take it away and
as always guys if you have questions as
we go along drop them in the chat I'll
help moderate questions either during or
at the end without further Ado let's
talk about what it really takes to cell
developers and Engineers yeah so I want
to open up with everybody one thank you
for even giving me the time I believe
strongly in community and specifically
the sales Community I even have my own
slack Channel with about 60 other cro
heads of sales apps that we always are
talking about things like this
enablement comp plans just Roe Rules of
Engagement so just to have the
opportunity to speak with all of you
today and share some knowledge is great
we'll quickly cover my background we'll
get into understanding the developer
devops audience so the type of Engineers
that I've historically sold to I do want
to get it before getting into detail
talk about what I've learned working for
series a through C the startups and
that's don't boil the ocean I think when
you're sharing knowledge talking about
fundamentals is is extremely important
my background real quick I've been
selling now for over 20 years I've been
out in the Bay Area since 2002 I think
it's important to note uh my expertise
in the area of selling to developers and
devops is really 10 plus years but also
like when we're talking heads here and
we're sharing our knowledge no one has
the perfect Playbook and I see it all
the time everyone's oh what I know is
I'm omniscient and the answer is no I'm
not so if I can give you 10 to 20% of
additional knowledge that you can learn
from today that would be phenomenal but
I'm as much as of an expert as my
experience lets me to be but so are all
of you and so if you have questions if
you have ideas during the session please
feel free to share and then in closing
today what I'll make sure we do is if we
don't have time I'll try to give SAS the
saster team leave behinds different
assets that if you want from the
presentation you can use but I'm not GNA
go through my whole background below is
just who I
am so working with Deb and the devops
audience first a lot of things come into
play and when I was asked or given the
opportunity to present today and with
all of you it wasn't as easy if oh let
me just share my knowledge because the
hard part about these discussions is it
depends on your Vantage Point so your
product Market fit influences a lot of
what we're going to discuss and what you
take away from it a selling motion
matters and if you're so if you're high
velocity commercial mid-market versus
Enterprise the type of land and expand
could be different versus what we're
covering today so again what I present
is meant to be at a macro level
however if you have questions specific
to your situation we're happy to take
them if time permits um the other thing
is commodor is the first company out of
the last five that is in a product Le
growth motion um this is we purely sales
Le Enterprise inbound outbound that
matters a lot and we'll get into that so
again your selling motion and how you
look at these personas in this audience
and where they are is their flywheel or
their sales cycle uh matters where does
your target come profile land on the
technology adoption curve this is the
sort of Crossing orcasm innovators early
adopters early majority late majority
lagard this also matters when we're
talking today because it's all about
positioning and selling to the Right
audience and the last thing is how
mature is the market in recognizing Your
solution I generally like to work for
companies that
are solving provide a solution to an
existing problem versus try to create
the space and so again if you if you
have to educate people on sort of the
existence of the problem before helping
them understand how to solve the problem
some of this could sort of the impact
that we're talking about today can vary
again a lot of things come into play
when we're covering the topics we're
covering today but again that's why I
would love to have questions from all of
you because I think um opening up to a
broader discussion will
help um Second and this is really
important as we get into sort of the
personas with this audience specifically
going back when I started working with
the developer devops audience in 2013
2014 what I learned which is so
different from selling to finance and HR
and sales and marketing was depth
matters these people like if I go back
to when I originally started my career
was a Anderson Consulting became
accenter part of my job as an analyst
was programming I learned Cobalt and C++
and I was horrendous potentially the
worst developer I've ever met this being
said what I learned was this is a craft
and what this audience does is they're
artists and just like in sports or
athletes there's a top 10% you'll see
that here too and they really are
passionate about what they do they're
passionate about the products they
leverage to help them do their job
better but like they're artists and if
you see really clean code if you can see
what these guys what these individuals
do you'll be amazed by like how you sell
to them and and what matters so I'd say
the thing to know about this audience is
they get us
they know you're selling them a product
they don't necessarily love salespeople
but again they do love their craft and
so they're never thinking you're going
to sell them the Silver Bullet they and
if you promise them that you are they're
not going to trust you there's no bsing
this audience but the quality of the
experience like how you follow up how
your product delivers in the PC that's
what really matters and so it's more
like project management and and running
a plan than it is about sort of your
artistic ability to sell so normally
we're startups and we're selling we're a
lesser known company we're selling to
Enterprises we're selling to mid-market
they want the product they have a
certain desire for the product and like
all of our audience they want lowrisk
High rewards so they don't want to take
a ton of risk and what they're buying
they want to know like what you're GNA
sell to them you're going to deliver on
but they also want High reward High
outcome so you always hear that term no
one ever got fired for buying Microsoft
or IBM name the huge company um but if
we're get in there we need to win them
over with trust with support and so the
buying experience really matters keep it
as simple as possible with this audience
and be very direct with your value
proposition and like already said this
but the don't be us the truth will come
out again they build these products they
know the ins and outs they are forgiving
but if you're not honest and you try to
sell them something that is I don't know
like uh bulletproof they're not going to
believe you I would say so as a person
selling to this product know your
audience and be hyperfocused I'm Target
and learning from that Target by
learning what I've learned about this
audience is feedback loop matters they
want to know they have a true partner
and they want to know that they can be a
product partner so you don't have to
tell them that you have everything from
a success criteria that they need on
their list but you got to talk to them
about what you do have and what you
don't have and if what you don't have is
a musthave be honest about whether or
not you think you can fit it into the
road map but show your listenting they
want to build with you they're Builders
no product is person
I already covered this but just knowing
your product Market fit knowing how to
anchor on is super
important so the developer and and
devops is a component of sort of the
engineering orc but back in 2011 M Mark
andreus wrote wrote an article in the
Wall Street Journal as an outet of why
software is eating the world and what's
really interesting is as I've sold to
this group over 10 years you saw the
Dynamics and the culture of companies
Chang you saw marketing and
manufacturing companies go from thinking
that they're marketing and manufacturing
companies to becoming thinking they're
software companies and you can see this
in the if you go look at insights in
LinkedIn and you look at the composite
and employee makeup you'll see that a
lot of these companies that historically
had low developers low Engineers grew
dramatically so I would say Andrew was
right we saw that software did E the
world and companies generally became or
thought of themselves as software
companies and this this sounds like a
negative term but again andreen quoting
this phrase back in the 2010s and said
nerd power and what I believe Mark was
saying what I saw in selling across the
globe over the past 10 years was the the
perspective of how people saw the
developers from a cost center to a
revenue Center the developers create
Revenue just as much as the salespeople
and marketing and so if every company
sees itself as a software company what
does it say about the person responsible
for building that software it says they
have power it says they have influence
and that's why you can do a lot of sales
versus top down bottom up with lands you
can get a lot of power through
developers at lower levels and lower
level first sline managers than you
could in other types of
sales um I will say something with the
caveat I was I love selling to this
group because they generally have the
power to buy and buy quickly what I did
see was after Co
2122 the pendulum swung back a little
and so where they had absolute power and
budget you saw the typical top top down
stuff come back into play so you're
thinking about this audience you always
have to think about being multi-threaded
now where before maybe you could move
quickly and be single threaded like
finops and just finances come back into
play much more than they used to and so
when you're winning with this group and
you've got momentum make sure you're
mapping to sort of true power and if
you're going to have someone come top
down what has come back into play is
finance coming in and saying whoa slow
down but you can't just buy everything
you want and you've got to be able to
manage through so just a quick note
there great group to sell to they can
move quick they can evaluate quick but
you do have to map like you would
historically in
Enterprise so s went to engineering I
wanted to cover ICP and if a lot of
these first couple sides great but I
wanted to make sure for a broader
audience we cover this and then I want
to go to specific personas you see when
selling to engineers in this sales
cycle I'm pretty sure all of you seen um
these two charts on the right before but
when we're talking about our ICP or our
our ideal customer profile I think it's
really important especially if you're at
a younger startup and you're working
with Founders like in my experience I
shouldn't paint with a a wide brush but
in my experience with Founders they
generally think their product can help
everybody because they were the initial
people selling and they've caught they
brought in a couple deals that run the
spectrum of different types of company
profiles but this can be super dangerous
and I would say when you're thinking
about your audience in this sector know
that don't boil the ocean yes we can
help everyone but who can we really help
who really cares about the Sol solution
we're providing for the problems we
think we're solving so again when you're
working with Founders in your earlier
stage startups make sure you're
hyperfocused and you agree on ICP and
you agree on tops the other thing i' say
is Beware of the left of the chasm down
below so your innovators and your early
adopters are amazing a lot of times in
the west coast of the United States
these are all the big logos that we all
want they are Builders they are
phenomenal engineering organizations why
would they need you and you have to
think about this with especially with
plg open source like you're putting a
lot of yourself out there which is great
but you're giving it to an audience that
is very much put together I'll say it
they have very large Egos and maybe they
should but like when you're thinking
about selling to this audience
definitely know who you can help and do
they want your help because zero times
zero is zero and I often find that while
I love talking to innovators and early
adopters to from the on the left side of
the chasm I do worry that they're more
just trying to learn from us they're
never really feeling a pain or think
they need us so I generally like to look
to the right of the CM which segment has
the best product Market fit total your
call but you really do need to know this
from a velocity standpoint Enterprise
versus commercial velocity because it
has a lot to do with your partnership
with marketing your enablement your
messaging your assets as soon as
possible try to lock in and fix it and
focus and then developing a top Target
list uh and tested I I generally find
for this group when I'm trying to build
I I will say let's go boil the ocean
let's pull everything that we can
globally at least out of the major APAC
Amia and ammer markets and we figure out
we'll boil down that list from okay
there's 50,000 potential companies down
to maybe 10,000 based on their Tech
stack are they using competing products
are they hiring for certain roles in
their job boards with certain sort of
technical requirements and then one
thing I generally would say software eat
in the world I want to find early
adopters of technology I generally find
that if there's a percentage 15% or more
depending on the industry or sector of
an engineering to employee ratio
I'm looking at company a they have 2,000
employees but 500 of those are
developers in it that tells me 25% of
that group is focused on Building
Technology that is a really good Target
and so I'd say you need to know your own
attributes for how you want to build and
focus on this audience but building a
top Target list early so you can break
down the world and then be hyperfocused
on top targets goes a long way to
finding momentum again enough of of be
preaching there but I wanted to make
sure at least we're talking about ICP
you have an approach that works because
this is the area what's not on our side
is time and where we can just spend
useless Cycles is thinking we can help
everybody and this is ultimately where
we fail because if we can't build
pipeline quick enough we're not going to
hit our numbers and we all get uh
replaced or the company goes under it's
as simple as way too much on this side
but I I wanted to show you like each and
every one of these except for
engineering leadership when we talk
about engineering and Dev and devops
these are all different areas that could
have their own sort of uh ecosystem and
generally you can sell to some
specifically just one of these personas
or all these personas but when you look
at the general breakdown of a software
or or an engineering or structure uh
this is how we see it leadership is
pretty consistent um from CTO CIO it's
Fortune 100 Fortune 500 company the CIO
might be more relevant than the CTO but
like bpsv of engineering managing
directors and then the engineering teams
a lot of your products in this space
will be specifically focused mine is
more on front end backend engineers and
devops that's where commware if we were
focusing today and maybe data Engineers
those are the groups that we would sell
to but for all of you you just need to
know who your audience is and you need
to make sure your messaging relates and
then there's support teams there this is
very vague I could have added like five
more bullets but again very generic b
breakdown before we get into the
personas what I'm going to focus on
today is the core ones around developer
devops and really the how they sort of
where they play a role in the general
sales cycle there's about 78 personas
I'm going to cover today when selling to
engine and specifically the world today
we're talking about is De developer Dev
Ops one area I wanted to start off with
was commercial because this is a a flat
High art you can actually get things
done there a reason High Velocity is a
lot of the times the people you have to
win over are also your decision maker
and economic buyer so what we're looking
at the engineering leaders S&P startup
Tech leaders they don't even have a sea-
level title they could just be a generic
or general title but they carry a ton of
influence a ton of power and so when you
think about where these people are and
their perspective they're thinking about
I need to deliver technology efficiently
and safely basically I can't blow up our
little company I cannot kill our
momentum um and they're focused on
failing fast and iterating quickly
because like all of us they don't know
what they don't know so they're going to
fail for
so they need something that's going to
work that they don't have to worry about
that will make an impact doesn't have to
be perfect they don't have to worry
about too much risk they're just so toes
the complexity like if you have a long
PC these people are wearing anywhere
from two to five hats they're wearing
they're doing many different roles and
so if your product from a PC perspective
is too much of a lift this audience
probably won't work for you they don't
have proven practices so again you're
here to help them do that they may even
build around your product and value
messaging I just took from some old
assets when I was selling to
specifically to Dev for this group
accelerating their team's development
improving and securing processes and
increasing developer productivity and
happiness that's what they care
about now getting to more Enterprise
this is a Persona that has a ton of
influence developer their own developer
tooling devops teams Architects
principal Engineers these are maybe
people that are not with leadership
titles but they're circle of Excellence
they are the 10 xers like in a sports
team that like these are the people that
are your rock stars and what will happen
is the top down groups see VP SVP of
engineering the CTO cios will look to
these people for their say and if you
don't win this group over War they're a
blocker you're in trouble and they're a
technical decision maker they're trying
to benefit they they've grown in their
career so they're in a new role where
they're looking at the bigger problems
for the whole company and they're trying
to reduce complexity of the tech stack
and they're trying to find things that
make the people around them the people
they support more effective so pay it's
they bought a lot of tooling the tooling
doesn't work they built a lot of stuff
inhouse but they're not seeing the gains
from the automation there's conflicting
tools that don't integrate with each
other so it's actually creating more
problems for solving and then this one
of this last PLL it is pretty important
over the past few years what we've seen
is while there was endless spend several
years back there's not endless spend
anymore and so what they're trying
figured out is how to narrow down their
tooling just to get the most bang for
their Buck I don't have to read value
message for each one but their their
whole concept is transformation and
progress this one's easy this is your
final approver this used to be called
the economic buyer and they're not
really the economic buyer even the
person that's signing on the contract I
don't really see as the economic buyer
but this is the person ultimately when
you're thinking about business value and
business objectives like what I'm
talking to someone about our product if
the pain that someone at the mid or
lower levels are really excited about
that the things that we're doing they
love they're like are not business
objectives if they're not part of the
road map for this Persona I'm probably
not going to get the deal I may have
gotten this deal done a couple years ago
before things changed but if this
person's not on board especially as the
ASP The Landing price goes up if this if
we don't align to business objectives
with our value um this person is not
going to approve they may not it may not
even be like maybe the VP of engine in
budget they may be the economic buyer
but if this person's not on board the
cxo the head of engineering like you're
done and so their focus on just bringing
the best prod products so their people
can build the best products and ship
fast that's they care but my thing is
you need to understand I don't think
this matters whether it's developers or
some other type of persona or sector
this group you need to understand what
matters to them doesn't align to
business value and if it does you should
be okay they know what complexity they
just want to know that the people under
them are going to buy and they're happy
and they don't want to they want to make
sure that it's not going to become
shelfware it's not going to become
something that that sits there they
bought it but no one uses it so usage
metrics and the ROI in those metrics
matter um in my world I only have about
two years in the past 12 of selling to
selling security and so now if you're
selling directly to the ciso and
security products this whole Persona
flow can change for you but this person
very much is part of the decision
process going back to CB in the
Challenger sale or now Garder like this
person has always been there and if you
can't check off security if you can't
get through security review you're
probably dead in the water it depends on
again what you're selling and and from
it what is it touch as far as impact but
the security person often they're not
there to be a blocker they just want to
make sure they want to they see the
developers as their customer they're
aligned with the cxo on making sure that
things are getting done but like they
have to do their job and they're happy
with technology coming in but it better
align with best practices and standards
or you're going to have a lot of
friction in the sales process so they
they do have this sort of cultural pain
point of security seen as an obstacle to
Innovation but you really need to
befriend this person and just like red
lines in a contract and a deal don't
avoid the obvious I try to have my teams
seek this person out early in the PC
process because you're going to run it
to this person no matter what and you
might as well find out early on do we do
our success criteria from a requirement
standpoint uh meet his or her needs and
then their value messaging is keep
development team safe with NM security
but just making sure every step of the
process is covered so they can freely
work development team leader engineering
director this is this is my person when
we're doing Discovery we want to get to
developers we want to get to maybe
firstline devops people people we want
to win them over so we can get to this
person and there there may be a climber
when you think about the different
Challenger Persona by the way I'm I love
Force management if I'm talking about
Challenger and force I think Challenger
wrote the book originally and then Force
management took that book and it's like
Challenger around steroids so what I'm
looking at personas here I this person I
would say that this person is your buyer
influencer they're the one they're the
one ultimately that's going to go to the
final approval person say why they want
this but they're the person you want to
lat yourself on to and if I can turn
this person to a champion develop them
into a champion that is the ideal State
because they're trying to grow in your
organization make an impact they're the
ones really involved with the day-to-day
and they live the stuff that we're
selling and the impact we can have so
the lior focus on creating a positive
working experience for developers that
result WR highquality products but as an
outcome for them but really just
developer happiness developer
productivity they just want to they want
to build and ship faster the right way
and they want to grow the company so
they care about like where Roi matters
with this group it's like meeting
deadlines it's keeping people happy
helping them evolve helping them be
productive and also simplifying don't
they have everyone selling to them all
the time so there's there are too many
ways to do anything so getting them to
focus on what your product can resolve
why it won't be shelfware and why you
can hit the ground running right out of
the gates matters to and I already C
covered the value message me in here
this is my these are my disco calls my
Discovery calls so when I'm trying to
map the organization in the S Engineers
I want to understand first I it's great
to say I'm going to go top down but
something I want to make very clear to
you with this audience the engineering
audience if you don't have buyin from
the bottom then the top will not care
and that sounds obvious in other
Industries it is Paramount in this
industry that like again developers from
their perspective are they drive Revenue
developers being happy developers
working as a team but if you try to
force something on them they will reject
and c cios and CTO have experienced this
over the past 10 20 years because the
developer has power and if you're going
to give them some BS rules they have to
follow like they have so many rules
restrictions before they sort of ship of
what they have to follow they have so
many we talk about shifting left over
the past 10 years I feel so bad for
developers we've shift left so much that
we' thrown so much on their play they
just want to do their job not everybody
else's and so you need to understand
their pain and you need to win them over
because you if you don't have momentum
with this group you're done so like
they're big influencers they're the ones
that bring you in especially an open
source and so they're the ones at like
front line doing all the heavy lifting
and so you need to appeal to them first
before you even get to the group
business meeting before you even get to
the new business meeting like this is
the person you have to win over like
getting their attention good luck that's
why your product has to be quality and
if it makes them better and more
efficient you've got their attention if
it doesn't you're a complete waste of
their time you're not going to sell this
group anything so just important like I
think the most important when you're
talking about this audience this is the
group you have to win over first you
don't win them over you're not going
anywhere at least that's my opinion and
that's my experience I know we just
before we go to like key takeaways Milas
or anything else you wanted to cover in
that section or so we can we close up on
action items yeah we can close up I
think there's just one related thing
again on the live stream yeah back here
for the for the personas you were going
through right obviously very technical
some folks here in the audience will not
have been as used to selling you know to
either technical bers or just technical
roles right like the CTO the cisos um
that kind of executive developers
engineering I guess just at a super high
level you talked about each of them and
what works the question we got was like
does being creative still work with this
more technical audience because
obviously for sales of marketing it's
all about okay how creative can you be
in your Outreach that is what will how
can you add value that is really the two
big differentiators if you want to get
into those personas but for these
personas that are more technical
obviously you went into it a bit but
like any high level advice on what works
like does be does being creative still
work in these more technical personas
that you're selling to yeah so the
answer is yes sales is a mixture of Art
and Science the science which I think is
the majority of the sales cycle is what
gets you to this person the art side of
things is creativity and so what's never
changed and if you think about the book
I know how many people in this audience
have read how to win friends and
influence people but one thing that's
never changed is people love the sound
of their own name and you want to always
appeal to their nobler side like motives
that excite them I think when we get
down to the Persona and we truly get
down to the individual it's all about
true interests and if you're going to be
creative like creativity doesn't matter
if it doesn't relate but if creativity
is about relating to the person you're
trying to reach and engage with and you
truly care about them and you show show
interest in their background and what
they do and what's important to them
that's the only way you're going to get
engaged so I think no matter the Persona
and any type of sales cycle creativity
always matters but to even get the
opportunity to be creative the science
of getting there matters most and once
you're in there that's why we're all I
don't know the type of leadership or
people you have like you all work for
but as a leader I want people to follow
a system I want them to play Within the
system but I also want them to do it
their own way we all have our own
discipline we our own approach and so
the creativity is where you start to see
the differences in ability yes
creativity absolutely matters as long as
it's
authentic yeah I'm G let's do your key
takeways and then we'll do the W of the
question yeah so um key takeaways keep
it simple
we again if you're coming from a company
that's been around for several years and
they have a lot of proof points um
things have been built out
systematically cool roll with that but
in the early days the companies that
I've worked for the day series B seed if
you try to boil the ocean if you don't
hyperfocus on what you think your
strengths are and you don't just go off
the fundamentals like I used to be in
finance and and one of the things in
finance they used to say oh it's
different this time it's never different
and so focusing on the basics as far as
hey it's everyone says also it's uh
Revenue solves all problems you don't
get Revenue without qualified Pipeline
and so the thing when i' saying like
we're talking about this and this
audience or whatever audience is do
whatever you need to do to get the
qualified pipeline that's actually the
thing that keeps me up in when I think
about this audience how to get to them I
always think how do I get the qualified
pipeline Focus already covered that but
don't blow the ocean get agreement
across the board iterate fail for keep
going and then for this audience
developers have power top down decision-
making won't happen without buying it so
if you don't that's the power of Open
Source that's the power of community is
you have that buying you have that brand
but even when you don't so for commodor
we don't have that Community like it's
getting by in from the right people and
knowing your personas and then building
up top down always matters but it only
matters if you can get to them the right
way and the last thing I wanted to say
open up with this I have a lot of ask
sets I do have this slab Channel with
these other 60 50 60 sales leaders and
we are always helping each other so if
you guys need things like value
messaging you need things on personas
feel free I think my contact information
is going to be provided but like I said
when I posted this it's about giving
back to the saser community we are a
community and this is our C so that said
I'm all good Emilia yeah now there there
were a few questions in the chat of how
people can get into your slack but I
don't know if
you so we process for doing that so
again if you reach out to me on LinkedIn
I'm happy look I can't promise you that
we open it up because we wanted to
really be focused on a smaller group but
like if it's a right file I'll be honest
with you tell you if it makes sense or
not but just reach out to related
question Jim one I debate a lot with API
Focus startups I've worked with or
invested in or no is just how technical
does the sales team need to be and I
remember I think a long time ago you
went you you're sorry went to GitHub or
gitlab it's embarrassing that I mix up
the gits but you went to one of them
early didn't you yeah I was the first
there were technical account managers
when I got to GitHub Jeff Jones were the
first Enterprise reps at GitHub and I
remember when you did we barely knew
each other but I remember thinking okay
how if you're going and GitHub was
pretty well established the time we were
an early GitHub customer in the and I
was wondering how technical do you need
to be for that sale any I've seen it
back and forth but I've seen a bunch of
startups blow up over this issue I've
seen a bunch of C say hey listen I
crushed it at GitHub I crushed it here
but I had a whole team of sees I had a
whole team of solution Architects I just
need to be a sales guy and be likeable
others are at the opposite end of the
Spectrum which is I'm already using the
product it's already in staging it's
already in production I'm already part
of the community I need a deeply smart
sales rep or I have no Val I the sales
team provides me no value what what are
your all your learnings from that all
right there's there's an answer I'm
passionate about that I think applies to
no matter how you look at it and then
there's the broader is that's a little
harder because there's variables that
come into play what I would tell this
group if I was to answer that question
for this audience is you have to be
intellectually curious yep and it goes
back to authenticity if you don't even
take the time to learn the product and
learn why the product matters and the
pains it solves for to the audience and
then you're not showing true interest in
their pain and so when I'm looking at
candidates for any of these companies
I've been or a Commodore I'm looking for
some track record or some style of
intellectual curiosity if you think that
you're going to come in and the is just
going to run the deal and you're not
going to play your part you're probably
not the right fit for most of the
companies selling to this audience yeah
so that's my passionate answer I think
it all it matters
to like how technical is the product the
type of depth like the ecosystem or
Surface area covers cuz then it matters
like the variable variable here like
what type of sees what type of SAS um
and then what am I what's my role in
this sales cycle and I think where
companies can hurt themselves is they
get locked in on a certain Persona we
got to we have to move fast and if
you're looking for perfect you need to
look for great you always need to look
for great as far as culture but if
you're looking for perfect you don't
even know what that is yeah my thing is
it matters of and as you grow in stages
like there's there's a white paper I
never remember the ce's name but Zora
and he talks about the stages he talks
about the different stages of 0er to one
million 1 to 10 10 to 10 to 100 100 to a
billion there's different needs there's
different profiles depending on where
you are to support your sales cycle so
it's not a great answer but there's too
many variables that's a good answer but
when you join I know it's back in the
day but when you joined GitHub they're
probably north of 100 million Revenue
right or approach unit about 10 or 11 oh
only 10 or 11 I see yeah it was all
almost all plg self and how and how
technical did you have to be back then
in the sales cycle talking to developers
back then when we at GitHub when we were
acquired by Adobe I know I'm dating
myself it was super controversial
because they didn't allow any
repositories in the cloud so they had to
make a super special exception for us
they created lots of drama and we my
developer my engineer said we quit like
they wanted to move us from GitHub to
Adobes and the logic back then made
sense right we weren't sure we could
trust it but think about how complicated
that discussion would be so how techy
did you have to be back then 10 or 12
million Revenue I wasn't I wasn't I was
not technical at all I jumped over from
from a sales marketing Leed startups to
this was my first I remember that's why
I remember thinking about that how will
it go yeah and also to understand the
culture of get up at that time was funny
they didn't even want Revenue we had we
were a test we had to prove that we
could sell in a quality way we wouldn't
embarrass the brand yeah it's a version
of this question right sales isn't
actually a negative for the brand I had
to dive in going back to being
intellectually curious I really wanted
this to work I was excited about the
opportunity I had to learn about the
audience of personas and and just before
throwing myself out there I'd cut my
teeth on
maybe logos and stuff that would not
make as much of a splash or waves if I
messed up but like I had to dive in and
learn because we had some support but
not that much we had great Engineers
that and and Tams are willing to help us
but it was really I I learned to
technical enough where I could hold my
own but I was not technical I had the
attributes or aptitude to want to get
there but I myself at that point it was
absolutely not I was scared yeah that's
yeah and what's this curiousness it's so
important right if we Amilia tell me if
I'm taking all the time and I know I was
double booked at the beginning of this
but I think this is I think this I agree
with this for what it's worth if they're
truly curious you you will get up to
speed on the 20 things that matter in
your first 60 days but truly or scared
and curious are actually a really
powerful combination to your point what
are the signs of that do you think and
for and how much work do you think
someone in sales in a tougher category
or where they have something to learn
how much homework should they do before
they start maybe these are not related
topics but to me they are curiosity what
does curiosity mean for real how do you
know if they're curious enough curiosity
means taking time to take it to the
first and second levels of okay these
are the objections we run into this is
how so for instance can they actually do
the pitch but to pitch in a more
technical way to the technical audience
and we'll run them through scenarios to
make sure if you had to do this on your
own could you at a certain
depth before they start before they
start they've got to do a pitch oh
before they start if I'm interviewing
them and they're trying to say I want to
come into this space like that's those
are Basics did you do your research do
you understand sort of the ecosystem do
you understand or a feel for our value
our position not our value prop and then
like why are you interested in this show
me why this matters to you both from a
sales approach but also from the
audience's perspective and if they
haven't taken the time to truly look at
the market and do their research then it
tells me will they put in the time once
they're
here I'm not sure they will so how and
what and I just think this is so helpful
to folks of the candidates that you've
interviewed right for what percent of
candidates actually have really done
that amount of work really done enough
work uh I comment her before where by
the time they get to you for the the
interview you think they're C they've
done enough of their homework they could
potentially sell the product what
percent of candidates go that far in
these
days
2024 I would say for me and may because
the type profiles imp pulling from
intentionally on our stage I am pulling
from a profile that is aspiring
Enterprise so I pulling from a profile
that's been doing Market in a certain
area that want to and so they are going
to they are going to put their all into
it so I'd say 70% % of the profile I
pull from when I find someone hasn't
done their experience so maybe it's
someone that is more tenured an
Enterprise rep of 10 plus years where
they feel like they've got this often
what I find is they come it's just sales
they just come in less prepared and they
make less and they I got this I'm like
man this other person like I'm always
gonna I'm always gonna bet on aptitude
over tenure over experience like because
I think it matters culturally I want
people that want to be here not people
that think they deserve to be here
and so I think that does influence like
the percentage of of candidates come
in yeah I do I feel like now there's so
many veterans out there right there's so
many folks that have done it right it's
so many great companies I I do feel like
too many veterans think they can just
phone it in it's the same thing that I
did at GitHub it's the same thing I did
at screen I don't actually have to do
much work
for I did it it's I did it at data dog
or screen or whatever
all the time all the care about that
because I need them like right now like
in my first as a cro I think the title
cro at my stage is such a joke like I
have in everything out I wear many hats
I'm a first line leader and that's the
primary job I have in my first two years
is I need to be the first line leader
for CS for not SE I I definitely
wouldn't do that I need help with that
but yeah with the Enterprise deals so I
need to balance it out with these this
people high aptitude that are striving
to grow in their careers with a couple
that I can lean on that have the
experience they just have to be they
still have to have the same energy and
enthusiasm going back to intellectual
curiosity that says they want to be part
of building this thing together versus
thinking oh it's just another job and so
I do need those people with experience
because I lean on them to make us all
better and I I lean on them to be an
example for the rest but they have to
have the right attitude got it and maybe
one other question and me you can tell
us if we out of time now that you're now
that you're back in the early days now
how do there's this balance in sales if
you're if you're not don't come out of
an engineering background and you're
selling to to Engineers I think actually
in any vertical SAS is's probably going
to be similar issues in any very
specialized area how do you
balance how much time you take from
engineering right if you if it's early
there's not 20 SAS and SE and S this and
S that you're taking the CTO time you're
taking the best developer in the
company's time and you want to win in
sales you need the help but I think that
if you care there's both some guilt
around taking too much time and some
concern if I take if I don't if I don't
take enough I'll lose the deal if I take
too much I'm going to break this
relationship and turn into a tax maybe
I'm overanalyzing it but how do you
think about how much time I get from
engineering like is it chips is it X
hours per week have you thought do you
have any metrics or or heuristics around
this all it's it depends on the culture
of the company yeah really was and how
much there's always these Dynamics up
play of you we have GNA and and revenue
marketing and sales and product and
engineering and how we all play well
together and ultimately what are our
objectives what do we put as the top two
or three things we want to achieve that
actually matters a lot from dynamics of
how much I'm going to pull from but like
in the early days your first salesperson
are your Founders and who's going to do
it better than the founders and if I'm
going to do it the right way I've got to
learn from them so I have them in almost
all the deals right that's the almost
all the deals in the beginning right
early until we start to see pipeline
grow we start to see the number of deals
increase and we start to find a motion
that you got to remember this is their
baby no one cares more about this than
they do so trust you have to earn that
trust and the best way for me to earn
that trust is to pull them early and
often the show hey we can learn from
this and we can do it the right way with
our own sort of Secret Sauce applied but
if you don't build trust with those
Founders good luck trying to ever get
momentum to build a machine and so what
I would say is like early days they're
my proof points they know how to do this
better than I do yeah but I come with a
lot of experience on how to build things
with process and so take their knowledge
and then in stages as you earn that
trust you get a longer leash then less
and less but you've already now built
around what they were running with so
it's not a it's not a very direct answer
because it's a it's an evolving answer
no but it's a good answer if you're
coming in as a sales leader in an
earlier stage startup selling to
developers and probably to any I think
this probably I think a lot of the bdd
step interesting Works in vertical SAS
because if you come into an
environmental company you probably won't
know all the regulations the environment
etc etc right you in the bigger deals
you want the founder in every deal or
CTO founder in every deal is the simple
answer to the question and be aggressive
don't hide ask for the time and up front
in the interview say you need it say
listen if you're bu if it get and this
is common like a GitHub if you're the
fir if you're at bolting on a sales team
to a plg or community-led motion right
so listen be to be honest this is a
great job but I need I'm going to need
seven hours a week from you because you
got to be in every deal with me right
not in every you got to be in every key
conversation right to start in the
beginning make it a stipulation of the
job yeah someone asked that question
earlier in the conversation and not that
exact question but it hits it towards it
and that's the thing is what do we
really care about we care about winning
you got to throw your ego out the door
yeah that goes back to being
intellectually curious also means being
willing to learn and everyone brings
something to the table like it's funny
as I've gotten older I've lost more of
my ego because I just all I care about
is winning and whatever gets the deal
done get it done and you live to fight
another day especially when you're sub
100 million like every quarter matters
and that's all that matters and so live
fight another day and don't let your ego
or your lack of curiosity get in the way
yeah okay one last question because I
know we're at time two of the best C I
know all of whom I used to work with one
of whom I asked repeated I introduced
repeatedly to some amazing developer
Focus start s he said no I'm not even
going to meet with them ever I I just
want to stick to B2B okay I just want I
don't know I don't want to sell the
engineers I don't want to sell the
developers I don't want to sell the cpos
it's not me I can't do it every time I
failed one of the best all-time best
another one who was catching up with
he'd have forgotten I put him into a
developer facing company that went from
two to 20 in two years okay and I asked
how did you do it because you never sold
the I didn't think it was very hard now
he is curious right is the answer your
question but so two stories two of the
best I know one who no way in the world
would ever go work at any of the places
you've worked the other one thought it
was no issue right bouncing back and
forth between five different
verticals long- winded why uh build up
to the question roughly from your gut
what percent of B2B SAS Executives can
make it selling to developers and b2d or
technical sales what percent can
actually make it and what can't if you
had to generalize what percent can make
it that CR cross over never even thought
about that I think I think any I think
anyone can make it's not rocket science
right it's still the same craft it's
just your ability your your desire to
want to you have to constantly learn
like I've stayed in this space now for
10 years but I don't know kubernetes
like I've been working on things that
are at least you don't know kubernetes
though you have and that's to said like
that's what makes the job fun I like
going to these different verticals
within the same sector yeah because like
the breath and depth of learning it's
what makes it exciting all the other
challenges are there but it might as
well be fun you might as well always be
learning yeah if you're open to that
like what we're doing you're goingon to
figure out the support and have the
resources to help you you have to like
the audience and you have to like what
they're about otherwise it's just not
fun yeah then you also have to be
willing to learn and put yourself in
areas that are super challenging and
like kin EDD is like the reason I I
chose Commodore versus AI products that
were out there was I've been seeing K's
been around for 10 years and it's now
adopted at scale all the other products
I've been selling over the past 10 years
everyone's saying hey we've adopted
kubernetes but we're struggling we can
you help your product is like no we're
not touching kubernetes and so what I
saw also as a salesperson this is where
the pain is and as long as there's pain
I can sell right there's a problem to
solve and so for me you have to be
willing to go outside your sort of
depths and take chances and if you're
open to that it's the application of our
art our craft is the same anywhere but
if you're not willing to do that you're
not going to have fun I wouldn't do it I
don't know what percentage though of
people would that would apply to yeah
okay fair enough yeah my my folks that I
know that have spent their lives working
at a gong or sales off or Outreach or
similar great world best applications
right sliding into another app selling
another application in the sales or even
marketing space like they can wing
it they can wing it right it's selling
more sales tools to more sales reps as a
sales rep and that sounds Niche but so
many sales Executives come out of the to
be the classic B2B industry right I'm
going to say my life experience is at
best
15% yeah th at best they can Thrive
outside of that you need someone to take
Paul St John from get up took a chance
on me so that's how I got into this but
like the other thing I'll tell you it's
hilarious about this is done those other
roles and I know I can relate to that
audience and marketing and sales and HR
and finance keep it simple stupid don't
talk listen that never applied when I
was selling to those people cuz I got
like the irony yeah you got it right
when I switched over to this side I shut
up because I sound so dumb and like if I
talk so what the irony is you listen
with this group and you learn versus
talking and so all the sales books they
always told you to do that these roles
force me to do that because I just was
not I don't have the depth until I do to
relate to these people and so just
listing is the key win here but I I know
I know we're over it's a great question
I haven't been really explicit my
answers are direct Jason but it's
they're good question questions are not
easy to answer it's good let's wrap on
that I do think if you're I do think for
any Founders any anyone trying to make
these hires and you're going to take the
risk like like GitHub took on Jim and
others really make sure they're
intellectually curious really make sure
they've asking the right questions dur
because you can do sales to anything
with even a remote brand if you're
intellectually curious right you can
listen right listening though is not the
same as not talk the same as like
checking out during the sales meeting so
you got that's the right I think
I still think it's 15% but let's combine
it with Jim's point which is you have to
be an election curious they have to genu
and they have to I think done enough
diligence during the interview process
to to have hacky answers to ask about
the trends in the industry to to really
ask about the why what's changing why
would I come to these companies right
why would I come to comeer why would I
come to screen what's changed what's
changed in kubernetes what's changed in
security they got to ask the right Cur I
think they have to ask the right curious
questions or they won't be curious
enough to listen to the customers and go
help figure out the answers to their
problems right yeah I agree cool all
right Amilia thanks Jim thanks for doing
this this will be great thank you we'll
edit it and publish it and do it more uh
shortly this would really appreciate the
time Jim it's a great top thank you for
the opportunity everyone have a great
day goodbye yeah thanks everyone we'll
see you next Sunday